We have decided that we are going to abstract connecting
our components to context by using this connect higher-order component.
Now what we need to do is we actually need to go ahead and build it out.
So, let's first start by creating a function called connect.
And one of the very first things we know about connect is that it needs
to return a function and when that return function is invoked,
it's going to be passed the component that we need to render.
So, we can come in here and return
a function and this function is going to be passed a component.
Another thing that we know about connect is that as it's first arguement,
it's going to be past a function that one that function is invoked we need to pass at
the state and that will return us the specific data that the component needs.
So, we will call that mapStateToProps.
So, now there are three things we need to keep in mind when building our connect.
The first is that somewhere in our implementation we need to use store.subscribe,
so we are aware,
we are updated whenever the store actually changes.
The second thing we need to do is,
we need to figure out what state the component that we're going to be rendering needs,
which we can use by invoking our mapStateToProps function.
And the third thing we need to do is,
we need to connect to context so that we can actually grab the store from context.
So first let's figure out how we can connect to
context and then we will figure out the rest.
So what we can do here is,
let's make a class inside of this component.
What we're going to call this is, ConnectedComponent.
This is going to extend React.Component and we've seen
this pattern before whenever we connected our components earlier to context.
We created a ConnectedComponent and then we rendered
the individual component that needed the data from context.
So what we can do is,
we have a render method here.
We now want to grab our store from context.
We can use Context.Consumer and now we have access to our store.
Because again, what we did in provider was we stuck
our store on context using the value prop.
And then now from here what we can do is,
we can render another component passing it our store.
So that's what we will do and we will call this component our receiver component.
So, now let's make that component up here,
so we'll say class receiver is going to extend
React.Component and now what should our receiver component be responsible for?
Well, first, it should go ahead and use
subscribe in order to be aware of whenever the store changes.
And then what we also want to do is,
we need to figure out what data this component
needs and then we need to render this component passing it that data.
So first let's go and figure out how we can subscribe.
So, we'll say Component.Mount and when this component mounts we want to grab subscribe.
Which is going to come from this.props.store because that's what
we're passing in down here.
And then just as we did earlier,
we can invoke subscribe.
Passing it a function and now what do we want to do whenever the store changes?
Well, we want to call the stop forceUpdate.
And then now we want to make sure that when this component unmounts.
So, we'll say componentWillUnmount.
We want to call this.unsubscribe,
which will unsubscribe this specific listener which
will mean we are no longer going to call forceUpdate.
So, we figured out the first problem of getting receiver and
making it so it will listen to changes and re-render every time,
but now we need to figure out what it's actually going to render.
Well we know that we are going to render the component that's being passed in,
which is this component right here.
But what data do we need to give it?
Well we can figure that out by invoking mapStateToProps
which is going to be this function right here,
passing it the state and then what that will give us is,
an object back and each property on
that object will represent the state that the component needs.
So, what we will do is,
in here let's use the structuring and we will grab dispatch as
well as getState, coming from this.props.store.
Then we can grab the state by invoking our getState method.
And then now in order to figure out what state is needed,
all we need to do is invoke mapStateToProps as I mentioned passing it the state.
So now, stateNeeded will be an object with each item on
that object or with each property on that object
being a prompt that this component needs.
So, what we can do is we can just spread stateNeeded onto it.
And if you'll also remember what I mentioned when
we built out our connected component was,
we said whenever we connect a component,
we'll also pass that component dispatch as
a prop so that we can then dispatch inside of the component itself.
So, what we will do as well is,
we spread onto at the stateNeeded and then we can say dispatch,
is just going to be dispatch which we're getting right here from our store.
And now there's only one more very simple thing we need to do.
Whenever we invoke connect,
like we are doing right here,
what we're expecting that to return us is
a brand new component that React can then render like we're doing right here.
So all we need to know now inside of Connect is what we want to return from
it is our connectedComponent that is
connecting to context and then rendering the receiver component.
So now if we head back over to our app,
everything should work exactly the same.
But instead of putting our store on context
and instead of grabbing that information from context ourselves,
what we've done is we've created a little helper library here with
our connect higher-order component as well as our provider component.
And now whenever we want to put something on
context or we want to grab something off of context,
instead of doing that ourselves,
we can use our nice little abstraction here to do that for us.